Java applications can have graphical
user interfaces that contain buttons
lists checkboxes menus toolbars and many
other controls that allow users to
interact with rich client applications
JavaFX is a set of api's that we use to
build user interfaces in Java it's
essentially a set of Java packages and
it's the successor to swing which was
java's UI toolkit for many years so you
can use JavaFX to develop the UI
for desktop applications, internet
applications and mobile devices but in
this course we want to focus on desktop
applications. With the release of JDK 11,
Java effects is no longer part of the
core JDK. So that means we need to
download the Java effects jar files and
configure them separately to get them
working so in this video I'm going to go
through the steps to set up the Java FX
package to work with the JDK 11 in the
next video we will actually start building a
project so if you're using JDK 8 then
you don't need to watch the rest of this
video just fast-forward to the next
video where we start actually building
our first Java FX application alright so
the process we need to follow to get
Java FX working with the JDK 11 involved
firstly doing a download so we're going
to download the file that we need so
we wanna go to our browser and the website we
want to go to is gluonhq.com/products/javafx
and you can see here that it talks about the
Java effects runtime being available as
a platform specific SDK so we need the
Java FX SDK for your operating system to
be downloaded and installed and just a
note here is it is important to download
the correct version for example if you
downloaded the Windows version of the
Java FX Windows SDK you'd be able to
install it and set it up on a Mac but
you'll find that it won't work so make
sure you do download the right version
I'm on a Windows machine so I'm going to
download the Windows version of the SDK
for JavaFX good news is it's quite
a small download you can see it's under
38 megabytes
going to save that and give my
computer on moment to run the security
scan then we'll continue with the installation
alright so it's finished downloading
so what I'm going to do is just go to
open the folder if you have any
difficulties like I have just go to
Explorer and just go to the folder in my
case the Downloads folder so I'm going
to go there now and you can see this
open jfx 11 that's the file that I'm
going to take a copy of now we need to
put that somewhere in a good spot
because we need to put it in that spot
and then it will need to be referred to
any time you use JavaFX in a project so
in other words you don't want to put it
into a temporary location or put it on
your desktop or somewhere that you
accidentally delete so in my case what
I'm going to do is I'm going to put it
in the Documents folder in a subfolder
called lib
I'm going to paste it into there now
going to extract the zip file
alright so that's finish now then we're
going to go into that unzipped folder
and I'm going to cut the sub folder
which is Java FX - SDK 11
then we can go back to my lib folder
and paste it in there so in other words
we've now got a subfolder Java FX - SDK
- 11 in my lib subfolder I'm gonna delete
those other two files there because we
no longer need them
alright so that's that file there and
what we need to do then is swing back to
IntelliJ so just minimize the browser
for now, now we need to configure a
global library so that we can
automatically use Java FX in any
projects we create so to define a global
library click on configure click on
project defaults and click on project
structure
next we'll come over here to global
libraries I'm gonna click on plus wanna
select Java now we need to navigate to
the folder where we've just created that
Java FX folder from the unzipped folder
that we downloaded so in my case its going
to be in my users folder and go to My
Documents folder
there's the lib folder in my case it's
the JavaFX folder I need to go into the
subfolder of lib then Java FX SDK
then the subfolder lib and I need to
select all the jar files that are in
that folder select them like so and click
on ok and the other thing I suggest you do
is just change the name there to
something more meaningful I'm going to
call that JavaFX 11 just so for me I
know that that's the JavaFX library for
the JDK 11 so I'm going to save that at
this point we've now defined the
global library for JDK 11 so I'm going
to end the video here now in the next
one we're going to start creating our
first Java FX application so I'll see
you in the next video